Reduce() is both a powerful,
and often misunderstood function
on arrays.
In other functional languages,
it's often called fold,
or compress, or accumulate,
but it's quite aptly named
in JavaScript, as it reduces an
entire array to a single value
determined by the reducer--
the function it
takes as an argument.
The standard example
is calculating
the sum of an array of numbers.
So let's take a closer look at
how reduce() and the reducer
interacts.
Reduce() takes the first
two elements in the array,
and uses the reducer function to
reduce them to a single value.
Next, the process repeats with
the previously calculated value
and the next value in the array.
And this process keeps
repeating until we
are left with a single value.
Reduce() needs a bit of getting
used to in the way it works,
but once you are there,
it is incredibly useful.
It can be used to implement
set partitioning, finding
the maximum, array
flattening, and solve
many other common problems
in a very flexible way.
We have one more episode
left in this miniseries,
and in the next one we're going
to talk about the rather new
flatMap().
So if you find that
interesting, you
should subscribe so you
can get a notification when
the new episode comes out.
But until then, there are
some more "Supercharged"
for you to watch.